Let's walk through how a Next.js
can make APIs and how simple it is.
So if you're following along with me,
you know that we have this hello.ts
that was generated from create-next-app.
Let's look at this,
let's see what's going on here and
we can see how we can create our own APIs.
So if we look at this,
it's actually quite simple.
All you have to do is export a function,
that function takes in a request and
it has a response.
And then because it's server side,
you can do whatever you want.
You can access the file system.
You can do literally whatever you want on
the server and just send a response back.
Just like if you wrote an Express app,
just like any app, I mean, Python,
it doesn't matter, they all do the same.
They take a request, they use a response,
and they send it back.
This is the same thing,
it's just broken down so
simple that it's just a function, right?
So if you want to make some API routes,
it actually follows the same
convention as the naming conventions for
the app side here.
So for instance, if I wanna make
an API route for, let's say,
/api/user/me, so
I would go into the API folder,
I'll make a new folder called user,
and then I'll make a file called me,
and that's gonna create a route for
/api/user/me, right?
And then inside of here, I can do whatever
I want as long as I export this function.
And it has a request and
it takes a response and
I just gotta send something back.
There's nothing to stop me from
doing whatever I want here.
So I'm just gonna say, res.json ,
this is me, hello, I could that.
This thing's freaking out cuz it doesn't
know the types, but we're good, right?
So now I can go to the browser,
I go to /api,
/user, /me, and let's see what happens.
So let me grab that /api/user/me,
and there it is, It's me,
and that's how quick it was to
make an API route, fairly simple.
That's it, you don't have to worry about
setting up all the ceremony you do with
any other server, you just make
a function and you export it.
And when you deploy this,
this is gonna be a Serverless function.
So some things you might be thinking
of is, but what about my middleware?
Where do I do that?
Well, there's so
many ways to get around that.
In fact, there's Express plugins that
will make this look like Express, and
you can still use the Express middleware
if you want, if you wanna go all the way.
But most of the time that I've seen is
like you just make a file somewhere that
takes a request or response and
it manipulates it that way.
Or they'll make a higher order function
that wraps this and it'll do it that way.
There's a lot of ways around it.
For instance, you might make
something with authentication,
you might say withAuth, right?
And withAuth is a function that returns
a function that takes a request and
a response and then it just checks
the Auth somewhere in here, right?
So you might do something like,
actually it'll be like this.
It'll be like this.
So you have this, but then inside here
is where you'll check your Auth, right?
So you'll check your Auth in here.
And then if the Auth is bad or whatever,
then you'll come in here and like,
the Auth is bad, so we're gonna do a 401
or something like that and just reject it.
And then all you have to do is just,
when you export this,
you can wrap this with a withAuth, right?
You can say withAuth, and
then you would just wrap it like that,
something like that.
And that's a higher order
function that I see people make.
So that's one way.
I don't like higher order functions,
because I think they're sloppy.
I would just rather just make a function
that just looks at the request of
the response and do it that way.
You can also use middleware,
which we probably won't cover too much
in here cuz it's kinda advanced, but
middleware can intercept any route
in Next.js, not just a page.
It can intercept API route,
it can intercept a public file, static, or
anything, anything that's ever
requested for your Next.js app,
it can intercept, and
you can check things there.
The thing about middleware, though,
is that it runs on the Edge Runtime.
So if you visualize the runtimes, you have
the client, right, that's the browser.
And then over here,
you have the server, right?
And then over here, there's a database.
The Edge Runtime is right in front
of the server in between the client,
it's the CDN that's closest to you.
That's the Edge Runtime,
that's why it's called the edge.
It's literally on the edge of the network,
which is the closest CDN to you, so
you only have access to certain
things on that runtime, and
there's limitations of the type
of code you can write.
So in order to do that
with authentication,
you would need something like
cookie-based authentication,
cuz you can actually check
a cookie in that edge runtime.
But you won't be able to check local
storage cuz you're not on the browser, or
else you got to think about how your
authentication works and things like that.
And you also can't use most node
modules on that at runtime,
because there's limitations
on how Edge Runtime works.
Because they can only be so big in a file
size that they can't use the standard
Node.js runtime that we've come to love.
They use a modified version that
can only use static code and
that dynamic code is kinda weird, but
there's tons of articles about it.
So it's a little weird,
that's why I didn't wanna talk
about middleware cuz it gets crazy.
But that's what people will use it for.
>> What would be the best
way to version your API?
>> Best way to version your API,
I don't know if there is a best way.
I mean,
the way you make your API doesn't really
change how people have come
to do things like versioning.
So I mean, you could just do the same
thing you've probably always done,
make a new folder here, v2, bam,
now you got it, so /api/v2/your routes.
You could totally do that,
there's nothing stopping you.
I don't think there's a perfect way or
a wrong way to do it.
Just note that we didn't specify a method,
right?
Cuz if you think about an API route,
it's a route and it's a method,
it's a verb combination.
We didn't specify any verbs here,
so is this a GET request or
is it a POST request, what is it?
You have to do that yourself, right?
So you have to come in like,
if req.method, equals POST,
then it's a POST request and
you can do your stuff, otherwise,
do whatever you want here.
You have to do that part yourself,
because by default,
it's gonna respond to
any request to this URL.
It doesn't matter if it's a post, put,
delete, option, get, doesn't matter,
it's gonna respond to it.
So do those checks if you don't want those
potential verbs messing your stuff up.
Yeah, APIs are easy, it's a quick
section cuz it just makes sense.
Yes.
>> This might be a bit out of the scope
for this, but I'm just kinda curious.
You mentioned that the API runs
like on a Serverless kinda backend,
how would it handle kind of maybe
WebSockets, like real time connections?
>> Yeah, so let's talk about this.
This personally hurts [LAUGH] because
I adopted Serverless functions when
first announced them,
when I was running a startup.
And we were just way too early and we
needed what's now a service database, so
we needed WebSockets and nothing existed.
So we had to build a lot of it
from scratch, so I learned a lot.
So traditionally, up until just recently,
you couldn't attach something
like a WebSocket or
anything like that to a service
function because it's not long lived.
You would typically have
to do a proxy almost.
You would have to use some third party
provider, like a very popular one that I
think is called Fanout WebSocket,
something like that.
Yeah, something like Fanout.
So something like Fanout or PubNub or
even Firebase, or Pusher, one of those.
You have to use a third
party cuz that's Serverless,
because it's hosted somewhere else and
you only talk to it over an API.
So anything that's basically API driven,
that's what you'd have to use.
That way your client's not connecting
directly to your backend, is connecting to
this thing, and then this thing is
notifying and triggering your backend.
So there's an extra step involved.
And for the most part,
that's still the case.
I have seen recently people trying to get
Socket.IO to work with service functions
and stuff like that, but
I wouldn't wanna scale that.
So yeah, I think traditional things
like that just don't work very well
without compromise or without a dedicated
team who is really serious about
figuring out all the constraints of
a familial environment such as Serverless.
It's very complicated, but
definitely doable, but for the most part,
you're gonna need a proxy,
whether you build it yourself.
So you might have to make an express
server over here that hosts your own
WebSocket instance, and your frontend
connects to that, and then that thing
talks to your Serverless thing, right,
or you just get one of these things.